
Our Campus
Located in an urban area of Charotar region, SANPPGIS&R is spread in about 3000 sq meter area that houses nine postgraduate department and PhD centers catering to the needs of an annual intake of approximately 1500 students. The campus is located in lush green surrounding and is a residential one with self-sufficiency in every aspect. The entire institute is covered under CCTV surveillance. There are over 16 air-conditioned classrooms fully equipped with audio-visual mode of teaching and learning with comfortable sitting arrangement. With 14 state of the art laboratories housing sophisticated research instruments and machines, the learning process for students is made smooth. The 24 X 7 internet connectivity (100Mbps lease lines of 1:1) for students and faculties help in seamless gaining of up to date knowledge in the respective fields. Students are provided with separate lockers in lab to store their belongings while doing practical. Clean drinking water and washroom facilities aid to the unhindered college life of pupils. The separate dining area is provided to students of each department. Institute also provide hostels and mess facility to the students.

Seminar Hall
The institute has two state-of-the-art seminar halls laced with all the facilities for a comfortable audio-visual interaction during conferences, seminars and presentation. The larger seminar hall, Prarthana Mandir, was renovated by Charotar Education Society and the newly built hall was officially inaugurated on 28th August, 2011 by Mr. Pankaj Patel, Chairman of Zydus Cadilla Pharmaceutical Ltd. The hall was first built to commemorate the famous Dandi Yatra by Father of the nation, Mahatma Gandhi. Gandhi ji stayed overnight at the place where Prathana Mandir is built and he did Sabha here. The air-conditioned hall has a capacity for about 350 audiences.
A 100-seater capacity seminar hall, M T Patel Auditorium, is also built by our organization for conferences and gathering of less audience. This hall too is equipped with all the modern facilities for conducting a seamless gathering of students and community members.

Computer Lab
We have a well-equipped two Computer Laboratories with latest technology’s hardware and all needed software we provide separate computer to each student to develop excellent computing skill.70computer systems and Oneserver systems are kept in the computer departmental laboratory. All the computer systems are connected through structured network and internet. The Network is supported with four latest Servers and three managed network switches. The department is provided three laptop computer for demonstrating the concepts and theories in the class rooms using above mentioned ICT tools.

Library
Our institute boast of a well-furnished library with comfortable study area for students. The excellent Library facilities cater to needs of Curriculum, Research, Consulting and General Reading.The institute is subscribed to thousands of journals and e-books from globally reputed publication houses like Oxford University Press, Cambridge University press, Taylor-Francis books, Springer publications, H. W. Wilson, McGraw Hill Publication etc. through National Library and Information Services Infrastructure for Scholarly Content (N-LIST) program from INFLIBINET, MHRD, Govt. of India. List of Journals (Paperback)

List of News Papers
Gujarat Samachar
Divya Bhaskar
Naya Padkar
Sandesh
The Times of India

Hostel
Under the management-ship of Charotar Education Society, our institute has an about 250 capacity M B Patel Girls Hostel. The hostel is a cozy place with all necessary amenities like 24 hours CCTV coverage, RO drinking water facility, Clean and hygienic food at mess, Study room, round-the-clock security guard availability, first-aid medical facility, computer lab, clean washroom area with warm water facility, recreation area, comfortable bed and telephone facility for connecting with family members. Similarly there is Vidhyarthi Ashram, boys hostel, with all the essential amenities is also provided for students. The student community can avail the facility of the hostel based on first-come-first-serve basis at a very nominal annual charge.

Canteen
Charotar Education Society is fully aware about the importance of healthy food for students and staff. Hence, there is a canteen, Gaytri Canteen, built in the SANPPGI&R premise for a 150-175 guest capacity. During the lunch time, students and staff enjoy the delicacies of various types prepared in completely hygienic condition. The canteen is duly certified with “Food Licence” by competent government authority. Variety of foods and snacks are prepared by experienced staff using completely automated cookware like Baking oven, Electric Fryer, Dough maker, Automatic chopper/cutter etc ensuring hygiene and taste both. The seating arrangement is spacious with lush green surrounding for having a pleasurable dining experience.
A part from that the management has provided a large mess, Bhojanalaya, having capacity to host over 400 guests in one go. There too the kitchen is supplied with fully automatic cookware for quick and hygienic food preparation. The mess is regularly used for functions involving large number of guests.

Chemistry Lab
The Institute has four labs exclusive for Chemistry practical’s in M.Sc. specialization in Organic Chemistry and Physical Chemistry. Each lab has sufficient number of equipment and facilities. The lab is created to be fire resistant and handle any kind of mishap. Our laboratories with advanced equipments and facilities aid and stimulate our students for them to learn best with practical knowledge.The Chemistry Laboratory provides a platform for students to nurture the budding scientist within them. The laboratory is furnished with latest Equipment. Every year latest instruments are purchased for these laboratories.

Microbiology Lab
We have four microbiology laboratories for M.Sc. Programme. The microbiology department proudly boasts on its state of the art laboratory. All the laboratories are well equipped with all modern / Advance instruments required to support experiments as per formal curriculum. Not getting restricted to the curriculum of course, the laboratory is designed with a vision to support research also. Facilities in microbiology laboratory can support research in fields like Environmental Microbiology, Clinical Microbiology, Enzyme Technology and Immunology.

Biochemistry Lab
Institute havetwo well furnished biochemistry laboratories for PG student. Biochemistry laboratory is well-equipped to conduct rapid clinical chemistry and routine biochemical analysis and can accommodate a batch of 30 students. Students must gain extensive laboratory experience working with biomolecules, and a formal lab course is usually the best way to get that experience which makes students for future participation in research at the as well as jobs in the pharmaceutical industries.Major activities in the lab include phytochemical studies on medicinal plants, biomedical and molecular biological studies.

Physics Lab
The Physics Laboratory has General Physics Laboratory, Physics Dark Room, and Solid State Physics Laboratory.It is designed to give practice of taking measurements, analyzing data and drawing inferences while the students experiment.The Physics Laboratory is equipped with state of the art equipments not only in the field of Pure but also in Applied Physics. Modular design & modern instrumentation present in laboratory encourage the creative use of experimental & theoretical physics. The students are also provided with full hands on experiences in optical instruments, such as, Optical benches, Lasers, Spectrometers, Michelson Interferometer.

Medical lab
The laboratory infrastructure is divided into two parts; one laboratory specialized for clinical biochemistry and another one for routine pathology and microbiology work. Laboratories are well furnished and equipped essential all instruments required for routine biochemical, microbial, molecular and pathological analysis of human sample. Students are offered advanced level of practical courses in various classical and modern areas of medical diagnosis with utmost emphasis on hands-on-training. Well equipped medical Laboratory provides a unique opportunity to candidates to acquire not only skill in the laboratory techniques but also to sharpen up the edge in the laboratory-based research by undertaking an in-house research project as a compulsory PG dissertation in MSc programme.

Biotechnology Lab
The biotechnology laboratories are specialized and equipped to conduct advanced practical and research work.The laboratories are well organized and spacious with proper ventilation, electricity and water supply and are also well equipped with essential basic instruments required by educational biotechnology laboratory. The laboratory is equipped with the latest instruments and apparatus including a BOD incubator, PCR, Sonication, double beam spectrophotometer and Gel Electrophoretic units.Also the laboratory caters carrying out student investigational projects on gene cloning for different target genes. The laboratory is well equipped with all required facilities for batchwise conduct of practical’s in Plant and Animal Biotechnology, Molecular biology.

Plant Tissue Lab
Plant tissue culture facility developed since 2011 in the Biotechnology lab-II. It includes a specialise designed rack manufactured at SICART center of Sardar Patel University. This rack possess 5 layered with automatic light controller. Apart from this , a laminar air flow has installed that supports the aspetic conditions for the PTC work and along with the temperature controling facility (Air conditioning system). These laminar air flow and the ptc racks are well separated from the lab-II by a glass partition wall. With the help of these facilities, students did their dissertation work. Few successful in vitro studies of Catharanthus roseus, Adhatoda vasica, Adhatoda beddomi, and Chlorophytum tuberosum have already been performed by taking the facilities of this PTC lab.

